---
layout: post
title: Biggest Challenge I Faced While Becoming a Developer
---

The biggest challenge I faced on my road to become a developer was to know when to ask for help.  Typically, I have the confidence to know that I can figure out most things on my own, and only when I feel like I have used every resource I have (i.e. online, books) I will reach out (I don’t want to waste someone’s time if I can find the answer).  But when there are deadlines, time is more valuable and so the time it takes for me to ask for help matters.  Becoming aware of the time I spend on a problem/issue/error, and limiting the time I spend on debugging has been a work in progress.  

Working with my second mentor really challenged me on this.  We only met once a week, but being in the boot-camp I was working 4-8 hours a day alone.  I spent over 24 hours on a Codewar challenge, and let my mentor know, he then asked why I hadn’t reached out for help after a couple hours.  This made me realize that regardless of satisfying that feeling of accomplishing things on your own, I needed to take a look at what the cost in time was for satisfying that feeling.  I started reaching out to him more during the times we were not meeting and that greatly improved my efficiency.  There was and still is the option to use forums on Slack and StackExchange, but I have not utilized those sites with posing my own questions, but rather due to a google search on my topic I land on either of those forums and see that someone has already asked my question and followed by a solution.  So, in this regard I learned vicariously through others’ questions being answered on either of those forums.  Google’s search engine has been one of my key tools in debugging programs I have written; another was my mentor’s insight.  

Ask for help and build a community!